now
Co
for
please be
seated the sitting is open the court
meets today and will meet tomorrow under
article 74 paragraph 3 of the rules of
court to hear the oral observations of
the parties on the request for the indic
of provisional measures submitted by the
Republic of South Africa in the case
concerning application of the convention
on the prevention and Punishment of the
crime of genocide in the Gaza Strip
South Africa versus
Israel the court does not include upon
the bench a judge of the nationality of
either party accordingly both parties
Avail themselves of the right under
article 31 paragraph 3 of the statute to
choose a judge ad hoc South Africa has
chosen judge dikang Ernest Mosen and
Israel judge Aaron Barack article 20 of
the statute provides that every member
of the Court shall before taking up his
duties make a solemn declaration in open
court that he will exercise his powers
impartially and
conscientiously pursuant to article 31
paragraph 6 of the statute that same
provision applies to judges ad hoc
before inviting judge syic judge Barack
to make their solemn declarations I
shall first in accordance with custom
say a few words about their careers and
qualifications judge dick gong Ernest
Mosen of South African nationality has
had a distinguished career as a judge
law practitioner and academic after
obtaining degrees in English political
science and law from the University of
South Africa he practiced as an attorney
and an advocate with the Petoria bar in
2001 he was appointed a judge on the
high court in ptor and a year later he
became a judge on the Constitutional
Court of South Africa where he was
deputy chief justice for more than a
decade and acting Chief Justice in TW
2013 and
2014 judge Mosen is also an honorary
professor in the department of jurist
prudence at the University of ptor and
has served as a chancellor of the ptor
technicon in the University of vitan in
Johannesburg judge M has received
numerous honorary doctorates and awards
I shall now say a few words about the
career and qualifications of Judge
Barack judge aharam Barack of Israeli
nationality has had an eminent career as
a judge and law professor he holds a PhD
in law from the Hebrew University of
Jerusalem and served as the dean of the
faculty of law of that University
between 19 74 and
1975 he was appointed to the Israeli
Supreme Court in 1978 and served as its
president from 1995 to 2006 prior to
joining the Supreme Court Judge Barack
served as the Attorney General of the
state of Israel between 194 1975 and
1978 he has taught law in a number of
law schools including yel University the
Hebrew University of Jerusalem and the
Reich University in herzelia Israel
judge Barack has also written
extensively in law and has received
numerous honorary degrees and
Awards in accordance with the order of
Precedence fixed by article 7 paragraph
3 of the rules of court I shall first
invite judge M to make the solemn
declaration pres prescribed by the
statute and I request all those present
to
rise judge m okay you have the
floor I solemnly declare that I will
perform my
duties and exercise my
Powers as a judge
honorably
faithfully
impartially and
conscientiously I thank judge M and I
now invite judge Barack to make the
solemn declaration prescribed by the
statute judge Barack you have the floor
I solemnly declare that I will perform
my duties and exercise my Powers as
judge honorably faithfully impartially
and consciously I thank you judge Barack
please be
seated I take note of the solemn
declarations made by judge adak musen
and judge adak Barack and I declare them
duly installed as judges ad hoc in the
case concerning application of the
convention on the prevention and
Punishment of the crime of genocide in
the Gaza Strip South Africa versus
Israel I shall now recall the principal
steps of the procedure in the present
case on 29 December 2023 the government
of South Africa filed in the registry of
the Court an application instituting
proceedings against the state of Israel
alleging violations by the latter of its
obligations under the 1948 convention on
the prevention and Punishment of the
crime of genocide I shall refer to this
convention as the genocide convention to
found the jurisdiction of the Court
South Africa invokes article 36
paragraph 1 of the statute of court and
article 9 of the genocide
convention South Africa states that its
applications concerns acts threatened
adopted condoned taken and being taken
by the government and Military of Israel
against the Palestinian people a
distinct National racial and ethnical
group in the wake of the attacks in
Israel on 7 October
2023 South Africa contends that the acts
and omissions by Israel of which it
complains are genocidal in character
because I quote they are intended to
bring about the destruction of a
substantial part of the Palestinian
national racial and ethnical group that
being the part of the Palestinian group
in the Gaza Strip end of quote South
Africa asserts that the relevant acts
are attributable to Israel which has
failed to prevent genocide and is
committing genocide and which has also
violated and continues to violate other
fundamental obligations under the
genocide convention the application
contains a request for the indication of
provisional measures pursuant to article
41 of the statute of court and articles
73 74 and 75 of the rules of Court
according to South Africa I quote
provisional measures are necessary in
this case to protect against further
severe and irreparable harm to the
rights of the Palestinian people under
the genocide convention which continued
to be violated with impunity South
Africa requests that the court indicate
provisional measures to protect and
preserve those rights as well as its own
rights under the convention and to
prevent any aggravation or extension of
the dispute pending the determination of
the merits of the issues raised by the
application
end of quote the registar will now read
out the passage from the request
specifying the provisional measures
which the government of South Africa is
asking the court to indicate you have
the floor Mr
registar thank you Madame President I
quote one the state of Israel shall
immediately suspend its military
operations in and against Gaza two the
state of Israel shall ensure that any
military or irregular armed units which
may be directed supported or influenced
by it as well as any organizations and
persons which may be subject to its
control direction or influence take no
steps in furtherance of the military
operation refer 2.1 above three the
Republic of South Africa and the state
of Israel shall e in accordance with
their obligations under the convention
on the prevention and Punishment of the
crime of genocide in relation to the
Palestinian people take all reasonable
measures within their power to prevent
genocide four the state of Israel shall
in accordance with its obligations under
the convention on the prevention and
Punishment of the crime of genocide in
relation to the Palestinian people as a
group protected by the convention on the
prevention and Punishment of the crime
of genocide desisted from the commission
of of any and all acts within the scope
of article two of the convention in
particular a killing members of the
group b causing serious bodily or mental
harm to the members of the group C
deliberately inflicting on the group
conditions of Life calculated to bring
about its physical destruction in all or
in part and the imposing measures
intended to prevent births within the
group five the the state of Israel shall
person one 2.4 C above in relation to
Palestinians desist from and take all
measures within its power including the
resending of relevant orders of
restrictions and or of prohibitions to
prevent a the expulsion and forc
displacement from their homes B the
deprivation of B1 access to adequate
food and water B2 access to humanitarian
assistance including access to adequate
fuel shelter clothes hygiene and
sanitation B3 medical supplies and
assistance and C the destruction of
Palestinian life in Gaza six the state
of Israel shall in relations to
Palestinians ensure that its military as
well as any irregular armed units or
individuals which may be directed
supported or otherwise influenced by it
and any organizations and persons which
may be subject to its control direction
or influence do not commit any act
described in four and five above or
engage in direct and public in ient
incitement to commit genocide conspiracy
to commit genocide attempt to commit
genocide or complicity in genocide and
in so far as they do engage therein that
steps are taken towards their punishment
persent to articles 1 2 3 and four of
the convention on the prevention and
Punishment of the crime of genocide
seven the state of Israel shall take
effective measures to prevent the
destruction and Ure the preservation of
evidence related to allegations of Acts
within the scope of article two of the
convention on the prevention and
Punishment of the crime of genocide to
that end the state of Israel shall not
act to deny or otherwise to restrict
access by fact finding Missions
International mandates and other bodies
to Gaza to assist in ensuring the
preservation and retention of said
evidence eight the state of Israel shall
submit a report to the court on all
measures taken to give effect to this
order within one week as from the date
of this order and thereafter at such
regular interval as the court shall
order until a final decision on the case
is rendered by the court nine the state
of Israel shall refrain from any action
and shall ensure that no action is taken
which might aggravate or extend the
dispute before the court or make it more
difficult to resolve end of court I
thank the registar immediately after the
application containing the request for
the indication of provisional measures
was filed the deputy registar
transmitted an original copy thereof to
the government of Israel he also
notified the Secretary General of the
United
Nations according to article 74
paragraph 1 of the rules of Court a
request for the indication of
provisional measures shall have priority
over all other cases paragraph two of
the same article states that the court
shall proceed to a decision on the
request as a matter of urgency this
imperative must however be balanced with
the the need to fix a date of oral
proceedings in such a way as to afford
the parties an opportunity to be
represented at the hearings consequently
the parties were informed that the date
for the opening of the oral proceedings
during which they could present their
observations on the request for the
indication of provisional measures had
been fixed for Thursday 11 January 2024
at 10:00 a.m. I would now like to
welcome the delegations of South Africa
and Israel and I note the presence
before the court of the agents and
counsel of both parties this morning the
court will hear the single round of oral
argument of South Africa which has
submitted the request for the indication
of provisional measures it will hear
Israel tomorrow morning at 10:00 a.m.
for purposes of this single round of
oral argument each party will have
available to it a three-hour sitting in
this first sitting South Africa May if
required Avail itself of a short
extension Beyond 1: p.m. today in view
of the time taken up by these
introductory REM remarks before I give
the floor to the agent of South Africa I
wish to draw the party's attention to
practice Direction 11 which states as
follows I quote in oral proceedings on
the request for the indication of
provisional measures parties should
limit themselves to what is relevant to
the criteria for the indication of
provisional measures as stipulated in
the statute rules and Juris Prudence of
the Court they should not enter into the
merits of the case beyond what is
strictly necessary for that purpose end
of quote
I now give the floor to the agent of
South Africa his Excellency Mr vuzi
madona you have the floor
Excellency Madame
President distinguished members of the
Court it is an honor and a privilege for
me to appear before you today on behalf
of the Republic of South Africa I wish
to express my gratitude to the court
for convening this hearing on the
earliest possible date to entertain
South Africa's request for the
indication of provisional measures in
this matter in our application South
Africa has recognized the ongoing knock
bar of the Palestinian people through
Israel's colonization since
1948 which has systematically and
forcibly
dispossessed displaced and fragmented
the Palestinian people deliberately
denying them the their internationally
recognized inalienable right to
self-determination and their
internationally recognized right of
return as refugees to their towns and
villages in what is now the state of
Israel we are also particularly mindful
of Israel's institutionalized regime of
discriminatory laws policies and
practices designed and maintained to
establish domination subjecting the
Palestinian people to apartate on both
sides of the green line
decades long impunity for
widespread and systematic human rights
violations has emboldened Israel in its
recurrence and intensification of
international crimes in
Palestine at the outset South Africa
acknowledges that the genocidal acts and
omissions by the state of Israel
inevitably form part of a Continuum of
illegal acts perpetrated against the
people Palestinian people since
1948 the application places Israel's
genocidal acts and omissions within the
broader context of Israel's 75e apartate
56e occupation and 16e Siege imposed on
the Gaza Strip a Siege which itself has
been described by the director of unrwa
Affairs in Gaza as a ENT killer of
people as the committee on the
elimination of racial discrimination
warned on December
21st hate speech and dehumanizing
discourse targeted at
Palestinians is Raising severe concerns
regarding Israel and other states
parties obligation to prevent crimes
against humanity and genocide in the
Gaza Strip
this warning has been followed by a
succession of warnings including by 37
United Nations uh special reporters of
the failure of the International System
to mobilize to prevent genocide in
Gaza today we are joined in court by
representatives of the Palestinian State
the Palestinians who work in the field
of Human Rights including residents of
Gaza who were in Gaza just a few days
ago they are some of the lucky ones who
managed to get out of Gaza their future
and the future of their fellow
Palestinians who are still in Gaza
depend on the decision this court will
make on this
matter with the leave of the court I now
call upon his Excellency Mr ronal lamula
Minister of Justice of the Republic of
South Africa to make South Africa's
substantive open
remarks I thank the agent of South
Africa for his statement and I now
invite the Minister of Justice and
correctional services for the Republic
of South Africa his Excellency Mr Ronald
lamola to take the floor you have the
floor Excellency thank you Madame
President and distinguished members of
the Court it is an honor for me to stand
here in front of you on behalf of the
Republic of South Africa on this
exceptional case
in extending Our Hands Across the L the
miles to the people of Palestine we do
so in full knowledge that were part of a
Humanity that is at one these were the
words of our founding president Nelson
Mandela this is the spirit in which
South Africa acceded to the
convention on the prevention and
Punishment of crime of genocide in
1998 this is the spirit in which we
approach this court as a Contracting
party to the convention this is a
commitment to owe to the people of
Palestine and Israelites
alike as previously mentioned the
violence and the destruction in
Palestine and Israel did not begin on
the 7th of October
2023 the Palestinians have experienced
systematic operation and violence for
the last 76 years on 6 October 2023 and
every day since October the 7th
2023 in the Gaza strep at least since
2004 Israel continues to exercise
control over the air space territorial
Waters land crossing water electricity
and civilian infrastructure as well as
over key government functions entry and
exit by A and C to Gaza is strictly
prohibited with Israel operating the
only two Crossing
points given that continuing effective
control by Israel and over the territory
of Gaza Israel is still considered by
International Community to be under
bigant occupation by
Israel South Africa unequivocally
condemned the targeting of civilians by
Hamas and other Palestinians armed
groups and The Taking of hostages on the
7th of O of October 20 23 and is again
expressly recorded this condemnation
mostly recently in its not verbal to
Israel on the 21st of of December
2023 that said no armed attack on a
state territory no matter how serious
even an attack involving atrocity crimes
can provide any justification for or
defense to breaches to the convention
whether as a matter of law or
morality Israel's response to the 7th of
October 2023 attack has crossed this
line and give rise to the breaches of
the convention faced with such evidence
and our duty to do what we can do to
prevent genocide as contained in article
one of the convention the South African
government initiated this case South
Africa welcomes the fact that Israel has
engaged with the case in order to have
the matter resolved by the court after
careful and objective consideration of
the facts and submission put before it
as the parties to the convention have
intended this hearing is cont is
concerned with South Africa's request to
the court for the indication of
provisional measures and will necessary
have a narrow and particular
Focus I invoke the words of Martin Lu
King when he said the arch of the moral
of the universe is long always bending
towards
Justice South Africa's case will be
presented by a team of six legal
councils comprising of Dr
adim Mr
TGA professor John dugat Miss blim
Lon Mr Max DUIs and Professor vagan L Dr
adim senior councel will provide an
overview of the risk of genocidal acts
in the Perpetual vulnerability to acts
of genocide Mr
T senior councel will examine Israel's
alleged genocidal intent professor John
dugat Senior councel will focus on the
Prima
jurisdiction Professor ma dupes senior
councel will discuss the various rights
current under threat BL Crow King's
Council will provide will present the
argument of agency and potential
irreparable harm and Professor vagan L
King's councel will speak on the
provisional measures I now request
Madame President the court to call on Dr
hassim I thank
you his Excellency Mr lamola and I now
invite Miss hasim to address the court
you have the floor
Madam thank
you Madame
President distinguished members of the
Court it is a privilege to appear on
behalf of the Republic of South Africa
in this case of exceptional
importance it's a case that uncor
the very essence of our shared Humanity
as expressed in the preamble to the
genocide
convention it's my task to address the
court on the genocidal acts that have
led to this urgent request for
provisional measures under article 41 of
the statute of the
Court South Africa
contends that Israel has transgressed
article two of the the
convention by committing actions that
fall within the definition of
genocide the actions show a systematic
pattern of conduct from which genocide
can be
inferred allow me to place these acts in
context Gaza is one of the two
constituent territories of the occupied
Palestinian territories occupied by
Israel since
1967 it is a narrow strip of
approximately
365 Square kilm as depicted in the map
now
displayed Israel continues to exercise
control over the
space territorial Waters land Crossings
water
electricity electromagnetic sphere and
civilian infrastructure in Gaza as well
as over key governmental
functions as The Honorable Minister has
said entry and
exit by air and sea to Gaza is
prohibited with Israel operating the
only two Crossing
points Gaza which is one of the most
densely populated places in the world is
home to approximately
2.3 million
Palestinians almost half of them
children for the past 96 days Israel has
subjected Gaza to what has been
described as one of the heaviest
conventional bombing campaigns in the
history of Modern
Warfare Palestinians in Gaza are being
killed by Israeli weaponry and bombs
from Air Land and Sea
they are also at immediate risk of death
by
starvation dehydration and disease as a
result of the ongoing Siege by Israel
the destruction of Palestinian towns the
insufficient Aid being allowed through
to the Palestinian population and the
impossibility of Distributing this
limited aid while bombs
fall this cont conduct renders
Essentials to life
unobtainable at this provisional
measures stage as this court has made
clear in The Gambia Myanmar case it is
not necessary for the court to come to a
final view on the question of whether
Israel's conduct constitutes
genocide it is necessary to establish
only whether at least at least some of
the acts alleged are capable of falling
within the provisions of the
convention on analyzing the specific and
ongoing genocidal acts complained of it
is clear that at least some if not all
of these acts fall within the
convention's
provisions these acts are documented in
detail in South Africa's um
application and confirmed by reliable
often un
sources it's thus
unnecessary and impossible for me to
recount all of
them I will highlight only some in order
to illustrate the pattern of genocidal
conduct the UN
statistics that are relied upon are up
to dat as of 9 January
in South Africa's oral submissions we
will illustrate the facts that we rely
on with limited use of audiovisual
material Madam President we do so with
restraint and only where necessary and
always with respect to the Palestinian
people against this background I move
now to
demonstrate in turn how Israel's conduct
violates
articles 2
a 2 b 2 C and 2D of the
convention the first genocidal act
committed by Israel is the mass killing
of Palestinians in Gaza in violation of
article 2A of the genocide
Convention as the UN Secretary General
explained 5 weeks ago the level of
Israel killing is so extensive that
nowhere is safe in
Gaza as I stand before you
today
23,
210 Palestinians have been killed by
Israeli forces during the sustained
attacks over the last 3
months at least
70% of whom are believed to be women and
children some 7,000 Palestinians are
still missing presumed dead under the
rubble Palestinians in Gaza are
subjected to Relentless bombing wherever
they go they are killed in their homes
in places where they seek shelter in
hospitals in
schools in mosques in
churches and as they try to find food
and water for their
families they have been killed if they
failed to
evacuate in the places to which they
have fled and even while they attempted
to flee along Israeli declared safe
routs the level of killing is so
extensive that those whose bodies are
found are buried in Mass Graves often
unidentified in the first 3 weeks
alone following 7 October Israel
deployed
6,000 bombs per
week at least 200 times it has deployed
2,000 bombs in southern areas of
Palestine designated as
safe these bombs have also decimated the
north including refugee
camps 2,000lb
bombs are some of the biggest and most
destructive bombs available they are
dropped by lethal fighter jets that are
used to strike Targets on the ground by
one of the world's most resourced
armies Israel has killed an unparalleled
and unprecedented number of
civilians with the full knowledge of how
many San civilian lives each bomb will
take more than 1,800 families
Palestinian families in Gaza have lost
multiple family members and hundreds of
multigen generational families have been
wiped out with no remaining survivors
mothers
fathers children siblings grandparents
aunts
cousins often all killed
together this killing is nothing short
of destruction of Palestinian life it is
inflicted
deliberately no one is spared not even
newborn
babies the scale of Palestinian child
killings in Gaza
is such that un Chiefs have described it
as a graveyard for
children the devastation we submit is
intended is intended to and has laid
waste to Gaza Beyond any acceptable
legal let alone Humane
justification the second genocidal act
identified in South Africa's
application is Israel's infliction of
serious bodily or mental harm to
Palestinians in Gaza in violation of
article 2B of the genocide
convention Israel's attacks have left
close to 60,000 Palestinians wounded and
maimed again the majority of them women
and
children this in circumstances where the
Health Care system has all but
collapsed I return to this later in my
spe
spee large numbers of Palestinian
civilians including children are
arrested
blindfolded forced to undress and loaded
onto trucks taken to unknown
locations the suffering of the
Palestinian people physical and mental
is
undeniable turning to the third
genocidal act under article 2C
Israel has deliberately imposed
conditions on Gaza that cannot sustain
life and are calculated to bring about
its physical
destruction Israel achieves this in at
least four
ways first by
displacement Israel has forced forced
the displacement of about 85% of
Palestinians in Gaza
there is nowhere safe for them to flee
to those who cannot leave or refuse to
be displaced have either been killed or
at extreme risk of being killed in their
homes many
Palestinians have been displaced
multiple times as families are forced to
move repeatedly in search of
safety Israel's first evacuation order
on 13 OCT October required the
evacuation of over 1 million
people including children the elderly
the wounded and
infirm entire
hospitals were required to evacuate even
newborn babies in intensive
care the order required them to evacuate
the North to the South within 24
hours the order itself was genocidal it
required immediate movement taking only
what could be carried while no
humanitarian assistance was permitted
and fuel water and food and other
necessities of life had deliberately
been cut
off it was clearly calculated to bring
about the destruction of the
population for many Palestinians the
forced evacuation from their homes is
inevitably
permanent Israel has now damaged or
destroyed an estimated 355,000
Palestinian homes leaving at least half
a million Palestinians with no home to
return
to the special rapur on the human rights
of internally displaced persons explains
that houses and infrastructure I quote
have been raised to the ground
frustrating any realistic prospects for
displaced gazin to return home repeating
a long history of mass Force
displacement of Palestinians by
Israel there is no indication at all
that Israel accepts responsibility for
rebuilding what it has destroyed instead
the destruction is celebrated by the
Israeli
army soldiers fullness F themselves
joyfully detonating entire apartment
blocks and town
squares erecting the Israeli flag over
the wreckage seeking to reestablish
Israeli settlements on the rubble of
Palestinian homes and thus extinguishing
the very basis of Palestinian life in
Gaza
second together with the force
displacement Israel's conduct has been
deliberately calculated to cause
widespread hunger dehydration and
starvation Israel's campaign has pushed
gazin to the brink of
famine an unprecedented 93% of the
population in Gaza is facing crisis
levels of
hunger of all the people in the
world currently suffering catastrophic
hunger more than
80% are in
Gaza the situation is such that the
experts are now predicting that more
Palestinians in Gaza may die from
starvation and disease than air
strikes and yet Israel continues to
impede the effective delivery of
humanitarian assistance to
Palestinians not only refusing to allow
sufficient Aid in
but removing the ability to distribute
it through constant bombardment and
obstruction just 3 days
ago on 8 January a planned Mission by un
agencies to deliver urgent medical
supplies and vital fuel to a hospital
and medical supply Center was was denied
by Israeli
authorities this marked the fifth denial
of a mission to the center since 26th
December leaving five hospitals in
Northern Gaza without access to
life-saving medical supplies and
equipment Aid trucks that are allowed in
are seized upon by the hungry what is
provided is simply not
[Music]
enough
Madam president members of the Court
this is an image of an aid truck
arriving in
Gaza
third Israel has deliberately inflicted
conditions in which Palestinians in Gaza
are denied adequate shelter clothes or
sanitation for weeks there have been
acute shortages of clothes bed ing
blankets and critical nonf food
items clean water is all but
gone leaving far below the amount
required to safely drink clean and
cook
accordingly the who has stated that Gaza
is experiencing soaring rates of
infectious disease
outbreaks cases of diarrhea in children
under 5 years of age have
increased
[Music]
2,000% since hostilities
began when combined and left untreated
malnutrition and disease create a deadly
cycle the fourth genocidal act under
article
2B is Israel's military assault on
gaza's Health Care system which renders
life
unsustainable even by 7 December the UN
special rapor on the right to health
noted that the health care of
infrastructure in the Gaza Strip has
been completely
obliterated those wounded by Israel in
Gaza are being deprived of life-saving
Medical Care gaza's Health Care System
already crippled by years of blockade
and prior attacks by Israel is unable to
cope with the sheer scale of the
injuries finally the UN special rapiture
on violence against women and girls has
pointed to
acts committed by Israel that would fall
under the C under the fourth category of
genocidal acts in article
2D of the convention
on 22 November she expressly
warned the
following the rep the reproductive
violence inflicted by Israel on
Palestinian women newborn babies infants
and children could be qualified as acts
of genocide under Article 2 of the
genocide
convention including imposing measures
intended to prevent births within a
group Israel is blocking the delivery of
life-saving Aid including essential
medical kits for delivering
babies in circumstances where an
estimated 180 women are giving birth in
Gaza each
day of these 180 women the w wh warns
that
15% are likely to experience pregnancy
or birth related complications and need
additional medical care that care is
simply not
available in some Madam president all of
these acts individually and collectively
form a calculated pattern of conduct by
Israel indicating a genocidal
intent this intent is evident from
Israel's conduct
in specially targeting Palestinians
living in
Gaza using Weaponry that causes large
scale homicidal
destruction as well as targeting snip
targeted sniping of civilians
designating safe zones for Palestinians
to seek refuge and then bombing
these depriving Palestinians in Gaza of
basic needs food water Healthcare fuel
sanitation and
Communications destroying social
infrastructure homes
schools mosques Church
hospitals and killing seriously injuring
and leaving large numbers of children
orphaned genocides are never declared in
advance but this court has the benefit
of the past 13 weeks of evidence that
shows
incontrovertibly a pattern of conduct
and related intention that just
justifies a plausible
claim of genocidal
acts in The Gambia Myanmar case this
court did not hesitate to impose
provisional measures in relation to
allegations that
Myanmar was committing genocidal acts
against the renja within the rine
State the facts before the court today
are sadly even more Stark and like The
Gambia Myanmar case deserve and demand
this courts
intervention every day there is mounting
irreparable loss of life property
dignity and Humanity for the Palestinian
people our news feeds show graphic
images of suffering that has become
unbearable to watch now nothing will
stop the suffering except an order from
this court without an indication of
provisional measures the atrocities will
continue with the Israeli Defense Force
indicating that it intends pursuing this
course of action for at least a
year in the words of the UN under
Secretary General on 5 January
2024 I
quote you think getting Aid into Gaza is
easy think
again three layers of inspections before
trucks can even
enter confusion and long cues a growing
list of rejected items a crossing point
meant for pedestrians not trucks another
crossing point where trucks have been
blocked by desperate hungry
communities a destroyed commercial
sector constant bombardments poor
Communications damaged roads convoys
shot at damage delays at
checkpoints a traumatized and exhausted
population crammed into a smaller and
smaller sliver of
land shelters which have long exceeded
their full
capacity Aid workers themselves
displaced killed this is an impossible
situation for the people of Gaza and for
those trying to help them the fighting
must
stop close
quote Madame
President members of the court that
concludes my section on the genocidal
conduct of Israel I thank you for your
patient attention and I ask that you
call Advocate nukat toi to the podium to
address address the court on genocidal
intent I thank Miss hassim and I now
invite Mr TBE nuk Toby to address the
court you have the floor
sir Madam president and distinguished
members of the Court it is a privilege
to appear before the court on behalf of
South Africa I will address Israel's
genocidal
intent at this stage the court is not
required to determine that the only
inference to be drawn from the available
evidence is genocidal to order
provisional measures as that is to
decide the
merits rather the assessment of the
existence of an Inon to
destroy could be made by the court only
at the stage of the examination of the
merits that some of the alleged acts may
also amount to atrocities other than
genocide does not exclude the finding of
plausible acts of
genocide Madame
President South Africa is not alone in
drawing attention to Israel's genocidal
rhetoric against Palestinians in Gaza
15 United Nations special
repur and 21 members of the United
Nations working groups have warned that
what is happening in Gaza reflects a
genocide in the
making and an ofet intent to destroy the
Palestinian people and our
occupation Israel has a genocide intent
against the Palestinians in
Gaza that is evident from the way in
which Israel's military attack is being
conducted which has been described by
Miss hassim
s it is systematic in its character and
form the mass displacement of the
population of Gaza headed into areas
where they continue to be killed and the
deliberate creation of conditions that
quote lead to a slow death
unquote there is also the clear pattern
of
conduct the targeting of family homes
and civilian
infrastructure laying waste to vast
areas of Gaza and the bombing shelling
and sniping of men women and children
where they stand the destruction of the
health infrastructure and lack of access
to humanitarian assistance
so much so that as we stand today
1% of the Palestinian population in Gaza
has been systematically
decimated and one in four gazin have
been injured since 7
October these two elements alone are
capable of evidencing Israel's genocidal
intent in relation to the whole or part
of the pal inan population in
Gaza however third there is an extra
ordinary feature in this
case that Israel's political leaders
military commanders and persons holding
official positions have systematically
and in explicit terms declared their
genocidal
intent and these statements are then
reputed by soldiers on the ground in
Gaza as they engage in the destruction
of Palestinians and the physical
infrastructure of
Gaza we show this third element
next Israel's special genocidal intent
is rooted in the belief that in fact the
enemy is not just the military wing of
Hamas or indeed Hamas generally but is
embedded in the
of Palestinian life in
Gaza on 7 October in a televised address
Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin
Netanyahu declared war on Gaza and I
quote Israel had started clearing out
the communities that have been
infiltrated by
terrorists and he warned of an
unprecedented price to be paid by the
enemy there are more than 2. 3 million
Palestinians in
Gaza Israel is the occupying power in
control of
Gaza it controls entry exit and the
internal movements of inside Gaza and
qua prime minister Mr netan exercises
overall command over the Israeli Defense
Force and in turn the Palestinians in
Gaza prime minister netan in his address
to the Israeli forces on 201 8 October
2023 preparing for the invasion of Gaza
urged the soldiers to remember what
amalec has done to
you this refers to the biblical command
by God to sa for the retaliatory
destruction of an entire group of people
known as the
amalekites put to death men and women
children and infants C cattle and ship
Cays and
donkeys the genocidal invocation to
amalec was anything but
idle it was repeated by Mr natany in a
letter to the Israeli Armed Forces on 3
November
2023 Madame President let the prime
minister's words speak for
themselves has done to
says our Holy Bible and we do remember
and we are fighting our brave troops and
combatants who are now in Gaza or around
Gaza
and the deputy speaker of the
keset Israel's parliament has called for
the
Erasure of the Gaza Strip from the face
of the
Earth the Defense Force
agrees on 9 October the defense minister
yav Galant gave a situation update to
the Army where he said that as Israel
was imposing a Complete Siege on Gaza
there would be no electricity no food no
water no fuel everything would be closed
because Israel is fighting Human
animals speaking to troops on the Gaza
border he instructed them that he has
released all the restraints and that
Gaza won't return to what it was
before we will eliminate everything we
will reach all
places eliminate everything reach all
places without any
restraints the theme of destruction of
human animals was reiterated by an
Israeli Army coordinator of government
activities in the territories on 9
October 2023 who in an address to Hamas
and the residents of Gaza stated that
Hamas has become Isis and that the
citizens of Gaza are celebrating instead
of being horrified
he concluded that Human animals are
dealt with
accordingly Israel has imposed a total
blockade on Gaza no electricity no water
just damage you wanted hell you will get
hell the language of systematic
dehumanization is evident here Human
animals both Hamas and civilians are
condemned within the Israeli cabinet
this is also a widely held
view the minister of energy and
infrastructure Israel
cats called for the denial of water and
fuel as this is what will happen to a
people of children killers and
slaughterers this admits of no ambiguity
it means to create conditions of death
of the Palestinian people in
Gaza to die a slow death cuse of
starvation and
dehydration or to die quickly because of
a bomb attack or snipers but to die
nevertheless in fact Heritage Minister
Amai
elah said that Israel must find ways for
Gins that are more painful than
death it is no answer to say that
neither are in command of the army they
are ministers in the Israeli government
they vote in the canet and are in a
position to shape State
policy the intent to destroy Gaza has
been nurtured at the highest levels of
State as president Isaac hok has joined
the ranks of those signing bombs
destined for
Gaza having previously noted that the
entire population in Gaza is
responsible and that this rhetoric about
civilians not aware not involved is
absolutely not true we will fight until
we break their
backbone later attempts by the president
and others to neutralize the speech have
not altered The Sting of his words which
was to Tar all Palestinians as
responsible for the actions of
Hamas nor as I will show below has it
affected how State policy is understood
within
government the minister of National
Security repeated the president's
statements that Hamas and civilians are
responsible in equal
measure on 10 November 2023 in a
televised interview he stated that when
we say that Hamas should be destroyed it
also means those who celebrate those who
support and those who hand out candy
they are all terrorists and they should
also be
destroyed these are orders to destroy
and to MIM what cannot be
destroyed these statements are not open
to neutral interpretations or after the
fact rationalizations and
reinterpretations by
Israel the statements were made by
persons in command of the state they
communicated State policy it is simple
if the statements were not intended they
would not have been
made the genocide intent behind these
statements is not ambiguous to the
Israeli soldiers on the
ground indeed it is directing their
actions and
objectives on 7 December 2023 Israeli
soldiers proved that they understood the
prime M Minister's message to remember
what the amalec has done to you as
genocid they were recorded by
journalists dancing and singing we know
our motto they are no uninvolved that
they obey one commandment to wipe off
the seed of
amalec the prime minister's invocation
of amalec is being used by soldiers to
justify the killing of civilians
including children these are the
soldiers repeating the inciting words of
their prime
[Music]
[Applause]
minister
[Music]
[Applause]
for
Israeli soldiers in Gaza were filmed
dancing chanting and singing in
November May their Village B May Gaza be
erased there is now a trend among the
soldiers to film themselves committing
atrocities against civilians in Gaza in
a form of snuff video One recorded
himself detonating over 50 houses in
shuay other soldiers were recorded
singing we will destroy all of Kan yunes
and this house we will blow it up for
you and for everything you do for us
these are the soldiers putting into
effect their
[Music]
command
Shalom I'm is K
the commanders of the army are also of
the same
mind Israeli Army Commander yay Ben
David has stated that the Army had done
in bit hanon and did there as Shimon and
Lev did in Nablus and that the entire
Gaza should resemble B
Heron Israeli soldier yesai shalev
published a video against the backrop of
the ruins of what was the site of Alazar
University with a caption once upon a
time there was a university in Gaza and
in practice a school for medas and Human
animals soldiers obviously believe that
this language and their actions are
acceptable because the destruction of
Palestinian life in Gaza is artic Rel
ated State
policy senior political and military
officials encouraged without censure the
95 year old Israeli Army reservist Ezra
yakin a veteran of the de Yasin Massacre
against the Palestinians in 1948 to
speak to the soldiers ahead of the
ground invasion in Gaza in his tour he
echoed the same sentiment while being
driven around in an officially Israeli
army vehicle dressed in Israeli army
fatigue I
quote be triumphant and finish them off
and don't leave anyone behind erase the
memory of them erase them their families
mothers and children these animals can
no longer leave if you have an Arab
neighbor don't wait go to his home and
shoot him we want to invade not like
before we want to enter and Destroy
what's in front of us and destroy houses
then destroy the one after it with all
of our forces complete destruction enter
and Destroy as you can see we will
witness things we've never dreamed of
let let them drop bombs on them and
erase
them as recently as 7 January 2024 a
video of a soldier was posted online
where he boasts that the Army had
destroyed the entire Village of hiat AAR
for two weeks he said they had worked
hard to bomb the village and executed
their
mandate any suggestion that senior
politicians did not mean what they said
much less that the meaning was not
understood by soldiers in Gaza would be
without any
Merit the scale of Destruction in Gaza
the mass targeting of family homes and
civilians the war being a war on
children all make clear that genocidal
int inent is both understood and is
being put into practice the articulated
intent is the destruction of Palestinian
life in all its
manifestations the genocidal rhetoric is
also common place within the Israeli
keset members of
the keset have repeatedly called for
Gaza to be wiped out flattened erased
and and crushed on all its
inhabitants they have deplored anyone
feeling sorry for the uninvolved gazin
asserting repeatedly that there are no
uninvolved that there are no Innocents
in Gaza that the killers of the women
and children should not be separated
from the citizens of Gaza and that the
children of Gaza have brought this upon
themselves and that there should be one
sentence for everyone there
death finally
the lawmakers have called for
mercilessly bombing from the air with
some advocating for the use of nuclear
doomsday weapons and a nagba that will
overshadow the nagba of
48 the prime minister's genocidal speech
has gained ground among some elements of
Civil
Society a famous singer has repeated Mr
netanyahu's Amal reference stating that
Gaza must be wiped out and be destroyed
with every amalik seed we simply Must
Destroy All of Gaza and exterminate
everyone who is there another has called
to erase Gaza not leave a single person
there journalists and commentators have
announced that the woman is an enemy the
baby is an enemy the pregnant woman is
an enemy that it is necessary to turn
the strip into a slaughter house to
demolish every house our soldiers come
across exterminate
everyone the intentional failure of the
government of
Israel to condemn prevent and punish
such genocidal incitement constitutes in
itself a grave violation of the genocide
convention we should recall Madame
President that in article one of the
convention Israel
confirmed that genocide whether con
committed in time of peace or in time of
war is a crime under international law
and it undertook to prevent and to
punish it as
such this failure to prevent condemn and
punish such speech by the government has
served to normalize genocidal rhetoric
and extreme danger for Palestinians
within Israeli Society
as MK mosha Sada from the liquid party
has said the government's own attorneys
share his views that Palestinians in
Gaza must be
destroyed I quote you go anywhere and
they tell you to destroy them in the
kibuts they tell you to destroy them my
friends at the state attorney's office
who fought with me on political issues
in debates said to me it is clear that
we need to destroy all
Gins destroy all
Gins Israel is aware of its destruction
of Palestinian life and
infrastructure despite this knowledge it
has maintained and indeed
intensified its military activity in
Gaza as to full awareness in the week
after 7 October ngos and the United
Nations warned of an unprecedented
humanitarian crisis in Gaza the UN
stated that actors must allow
humanitarian teams and goods to
immediately and safely reach the
hundreds of thousands of people in
need so right from the beginning Israel
knew that it was depriving water food
electricity and Essentials for survival
it said so everything is closed
it is known that it was depriving
Palestinians of Health Care and
treatment for injury in the middle of an
unprecedented bombardment of food and
water and of other Essentials for
survival this prompted the World Health
Organization to say we are on our
knees asking for sustained scaled up
protected humanitarian operations
appealing to all those in a situation to
make a
decision or influence decision makers to
give us the humanitarian space to
address this human
catastrophe despite this knowledge
Israel continues to Target
infrastructure essential for
survival water and sanitation
infrastructure solar panels bakeries
meals crops it bombs
hospitals decimating the Healthcare
System Sy it targets Aid workers and the
infrastructure of the United Nations it
is because of the policy of Israel that
Gaza has become a place of death and
despair in conclusion Madame
President many propagators of grave
atrocities have protested that they were
misunderstood that they did not mean
what they said and that they are own
words were taken out of
context what state would admit to a
genocidal
intent yet the distinctive feature of
this case has not been the silence as
such but the reiteration and repetition
of genocidal speech throughout every
sphere of State in
Israel we remind the court of the
identity and authority of the genocidal
in
citers the Prime
Minister the
president the Minister of Defense the
minister of National Security the
minister of energy and
infrastructure members of the canet
senior Army officials and food
soldiers genocidal utterances are
therefore not out in the
fringes they are embodied in state
policy the tent to destroy is plainly
understood by soldiers on the ground it
is also fully understood by some within
the Israeli Society with a government
facing criticism for allowing in any age
to Gaza on the basis that it is
recounting on its promise to starve
Palestinians any suggestion that Israeli
officials did not mean what they said or
were not fully understood by soldiers
and civilians alike to to mean what they
said should be rejected by this court
the evidence of genocidal intent is not
only chilling it is also overwhelming
and
incontrovertible Madam president it is
now my honor to request you to call Mr
John dugat on the subject of
jurisdiction I thank Mr Good Kai Toby
and I now invite professor John dugar to
take the floor you have the floor
professor
Madam president distinguished members of
the Court it is a great priv privilege
to appear before you today on behalf of
the Republic of South
Africa in my speech I will address the
question of
jurisdiction the people of South Africa
and of Israel both have a history of
suffering both states have become
parties to the genocide convention in
the determination to end
suffering in the spirit neither has
attached a reservation to article 9 of
the convention on the prevention and
Punishment of the crime of
genocide it is in terms of this
convention dedicated to saving Humanity
that South Africa brings this dispute
before the
court the
prohibition on genocide is a peremptory
Norm obligations under the genocide
convention are ero omnes obligations
owed to the International Community as a
whole
States parties to this convention are
obliged not only to desist from
genocidal acts but also to prevent them
that the obligation of State parties to
prevent acts of genocide is the
foundation of the convention is clear
from its placement in article one of the
convention article 9 of the genocide
convention makes it clear that state
parties are Guardians of the genocide
convention unlike other treaties
designed to protect human rights it does
not oblige states to pursue negotiations
as a Prelude to approaching this
court it does not treat the ending of
genocidal acts as a bilateral Affair
between states instead it envisages a
situation in which a state
acting on behalf of the International
Community as a whole seizes the
jurisdiction of the Court as a matter of
urgency to prevent
genocide South Africa has a long history
of close relations with
Israel for this reason it did not bring
the dispute immediately to the attention
of the
Court it watched with
horror as Israel responded to the
terrible atrocity committed against his
people on 7 of
October with an attack on Gaza that
resulted in the indiscriminate killing
of innocent Palestinian civilians most
of whom were women and
children the South African government
repeatedly voiced its concerns in the
security Council and in public
statements that Israel's actions had
become
genocidal on 10 November in a formal
diplomatic day March it informed Israel
that while it condemned the actions of
Hamas it wanted the international
criminal court to investigate the
leadership of Israel for international
crimes including
genocide as the courts will know the
definition of genocide in the Rome
statute repeats that of the genocide
convention on 17 October
South Africa referred Israel's
Commission of the crime of genocide to
the international criminal court for
quote vigorous investigation
unquote in announcing this decision
president Raposa publicly expressed his
abhorrence for what is happening right
now in Gaza which is now turned into a
concentration camp where genocide is
taking
place
to accuse a state of committing acts of
genocide and to condemn it in such
strong language is a major act on the
part of a
state at this stage it became clear that
there was a serious dispute between
South Africa and Israel which would end
only with the end of Israel's genocidal
act South Africa repeated this
accusation
at a meeting of bricks on 21
November and at an emergency special
station of the United Nations General
Assembly on 12
December no response from Israel was
forthcoming none was necessary by this
time the disputes had crystallized as a
matter of law this was confirmed by
Israel's official and unequivocal denial
on 6th December that it was committing
genocide in
Gaza however as a matter of courtesy
before filing the present
application on 21 December South Africa
sent a note bbal to the Embassy of
Israel to reiterate its view that
Israel's acts of genocide in Gua
amounted to genocide that it is a state
party to the genocide convention was
under an obligation to prevent genocide
from being
committed Israel responded by way of a
note foral that failed to address the
issues raised by South Africa in its
note and neither affirmed nor denied the
existence of a
dispute this was emailed later on the
27th of
December this note was received by the
relevant South African team on the 29th
of December after the present
application was
filed on Four January South Africa
replied to this note Bal highlighting
Israel's failure to
prevent any response to the matters
raised by South Africa over the previous
months as reiterated in its note
bbal South Africa made it clear that
given Israel's ongoing conduct against
Palestinians in Gaza the dispute
referred to in its note foral of 21
December remained unresolved and was
plainly not capable of resolution by way
of a bilateral
meeting nevertheless South Africa
proposed a meeting on 5 January again
out of
courtesy Israel responded to this note
Bal by proposing
that we reconnect to coordinate a
meeting at the earliest opportunity
after the close of hearings in the
present case to this South Africa
understandably replied that such a
meeting would serve no
purpose Madam president these notes AAL
are all to be found in the judge's
folder the existence of a dispute is a
matter to be determined by an objective
determination of the fact as they
existed at the time of the filing of the
application at this time South Africa
had already accused Israel in the
security Council the general assembly
and other public
fora of engaging in genocidal acts it
had conducted a diplomatic dayar on
Israel warning it that it viewed its
conduct as
genocidal it had requested the
international criminal court to
vigorously investigate crimes under the
genocide
convention committed
by Israel in the guaza strip and it
accused Israel into Alia of the
deliberate targeting of civilians
intentionally causing starvation and
impeding relief suppli
it had accused Israel leaders of
expressing quote the intent of
committing
genocide Israel had flatly denied South
Africa's
accusations despite these harsh
accusations Israel has persisted in his
genocidal acts against the population of
Gaza what more evidence could be
required to his establish a
dispute it is precisely because of a
situation of this kind affecting the
International Community as a whole that
article 9 of the genocide convention
does not require negotiations as a
precondition to seizing the jurisdiction
of the
Court certainly a respondent
state cannot prevent a referral to the
court by claiming that there is no
dispute and there to atance discussions
on this matter when the existence of the
dispute is
clear for a state to insist on a time
frame for
negotiations would simply be a license
to commit genocide and would run counter
to the object and purpose of the Geneva
of the genocide
convention Adam president the question
of the crystallization of a dispute has
been addressed by this court
in preliminary objections at the Merit
stage where the burden of proof is
higher although the court has generally
adopted a flexible approach to the
subject it has laid down a number of
tests for the existence of a dispute
first it must be shown that the claim of
one party is positively opposed by the
other
second the date for determining the
existence of the dispute is the date of
the application but subsequent conduct
may be
considered three whether the dispute
exists must be determined by an
objective determination of the fact and
for a dispute exists when it is
demonstrated on the basis of the
evidence that the respondent was aware
or could not have been unaware that its
views were positively
opposed when these propositions are
applied to the facts of this case it is
incontrovertible that a dispute exists
between South Africa and
Israel South Africa strongly believes
that what Israel is
doing in Gaza amounts to
genocide Israel denies this and claims
that such an accusation is legally and
factually wrong and moreover is
obscene so an objective determination of
the facts shows that a dispute existed
on the date of the submission of South
Africa's
application and this has been confirmed
by Israel's subsequent statements and by
its continuing conduct in
Gaza moreover Israel must have been
aware from South Africa's public
statements the
Demar and the referral of the matter to
the international criminal court of
Israel's genocidal acts that a dispute
existed between the two
states Madam president the court has
indicated that in an application for
provisional measures it is sufficient to
show that there is a primer facy basis
for
jurisdiction it is
submitted that South Africa has
convincingly established the existence
of a dispute between it and Israel Over
the Fulfillment of the letters
obligations under the genocide
convention finally it is submitted that
regard should be had to the special
considerations that apply to the
existence of a dispute under article 9
of the genocide convention between a
state that brings an application in
furtherance of its obligation to prevent
genocide and a state accused of
committing
genocide this this concludes my speech
Madam president I thank you the members
of the court for your attention I now
ask you to call to the podium Professor
Max to proceed to address you on the
nature of the rights requiring
protection and the link between such
rights and the me and the measures
requested thank
you I thank you Professor Dugard before
I give the floor to the next speaker the
court will observe a coffee break of 10
minutes sitting is a
drink
s
w
than
please be
seated
the sitting is resumed I now give the
floor to Professor Max dupi you have the
floor
Professor Madame President distinguished
members of the
Court it is a privilege to appear before
you it's truly my honor to represent
South Africa in these
proceedings I will be focusing on the
nature of the rights that South Africa
seeks to preserve through its
application and the link between such
rights and the measures
requested as well established in the
Court's jurist prudence and most
recently in this Court's decision in The
Gambia case for the court to exercise
its power to indicate provisional
measures the rights claimed by South
Africa on the merits and for which it is
seeking protection must be at least
plausible
this threshold does not require the
court to determine definitively whether
the rights which South Africa wishes to
see protected
exist rather the rights asserted must
merely be grounded in a possible
interpretation of the convention and the
court must be concerned to preserve by
such measures the rights which may
subsequently be a judged by it to belong
to either
party Palestinians in Gaza as a very
substantial and important part of the
Palestinian national racial and ethnical
group simply but profoundly are entitled
to
exist as South Africa's Ambassador
pointed out in
opening to situate the right to exist
and the threats to that right requires
the court to appreciate that this
application by South Africa is brought
within a particular
context what is happening in Gaza now is
not correctly framed as a simple
conflict between two
parties it entails instead destructive
acts perpetrated by an occupying power
Israel that has subjected the
Palestinian people to an oppressive and
prolonged violation of their rights to
self-determination for more than half a
century and those violations occur in a
world where Israel for years has
regarded itself as Beyond and above the
law as the UN special rorer on the
occupied pal Palestinian territories
explained in 2022 and I
quote the occupation by Israel has been
conducted in profound Defiance of
international law and hundreds of United
Nations resolutions with scanned push
back from the International
Community that context is important as
Africa made clear in its
application where the International
Community has failed Palestinians for so
long and despite Israel's willful
Defiance of Palestinians rights South
Africa turns to this court seeking to
protect the core rights of Palestinians
in Gaza to be protected from acts of
genocide attempted genocide direct and
public incitement to genocide and
complicity in and conspiracy to commit
genocide as the court knows the
convention prohibits the destruction of
a group or part of that group including
through killing causing serious bodily
and mental harm and inflicting
conditions of Life calculated to bring
about the group's physical
destruction through these core rights
the convention further protects the
rights of its members to life and
physical and mental
Integrity Palestinians in Gaza women men
children because of their membership in
a group are protected by the Convention
as is the group
itself and the core rights are violated
and threatened by a remarkable set of
facts outlined by my colleagues and set
out in detail in South Africa's
application with supporting
evidence in the speeches to this court
today South Africa has chosen as you've
heard to avoid the showing of graphic
videos and photos
it is decided against turning this court
into a theater for spectacle it knows as
well as your excellencies the Temptation
for both sides in a dispute to parade
pictures to shock but South Africa's
application in those court today is
built on a foundation of clear legal
rights not images the detail material
before the court is Marshal to show a
case for provisional measures based
firmly on this court prior
decisions and South Africa advances its
case on the basis that Palestinians
rights are equally as worthy of
protection on the unprecedented evidence
before you as those of the victim groups
that this honorable court has previously
protected by its issuance of provisional
measures in the
past the material confirms the rights
and issue and their violation that
Israel has committed and is committing
Acts capable of being characterized as
genocidal you have heard from missim
about direct extermination of thousands
of people and Children of the
Palestinian population in Gaza since 7
October last
year and South Africa and the world
together stand witness to the forced
evacuation of over 85% of the population
of Gaza from their homes and the hering
of them into ever smaller areas without
adequate shelter or Medical Care to be
attacked killed and
harmed so the rights are immediately and
urgently in need of protection because
of the ongoing denial by Israel of the
conditions necessary for life it is
difficult with respect to think of a
clearer or more abundantly urgent
case arifin the chief Economist at the
United Nations world food program
chillingly warned a week ago on on the
3rd of January and I
quote I've been doing this he said for
the past two decades and I've been to
all kinds of conflicts and all kinds of
Crisis and for me this the situation in
Gaza is
unprecedented because of one the
magnitude the scale the entire
population of a particular place second
the
severity and third the speed at which
this is happening at which this has
unfolded is
unprecedented he concluded in my life
I've never seen anything like this in
terms of severity in terms of scale and
then in terms of
speed Madame President esteemed judges
the core rights on the evidence provided
by South Africa in its application are
demonstrably being
violated multiple further statements by
un bodies and experts as well as various
expert human rights organizations and
institutions and States all of which is
set out in South Africa's application
confirm as
much they collectively have considered
the acts committed by Israel to be
genocidal or at the very least warned
that the Palestinian people are at risk
of
genocide since the application was
initiated further States 30
to date including the Arab League and
the organization of Islamic Corporation
representing 57 states as well as other
experts have expressed their support for
the case thereby underlining the
plausibility of South Africa's claim for
provisional
measures for the purposes of the
indication of provisional measures the
rights asserted by South Africa under
the genocide convention and their
protection corresponds with the very
object and purpose of the convention
based on the materials before the court
the acts by Israel complained of are
capable of being characterized as at
least plausibly
genocidal as Mr Toby has explicated the
evidence of the specific genocidal
intent is clear from the statements by
Israeli government officials and
soldiers towards Palestinians in Gaza
and which may be characterized as at the
very least plausibly
genocidal this at least plaus plausible
genocidal intent can also be deduced
from the pattern of conduct against
Palestinians in
Gaza it is also again at the very least
plausible that Israel has failed to
prevent or to punish genocide conspiracy
to commit genocide direct and public
incitement to genocide attempted
genocide and complicity in
genocide and it is further plausible
that South Africa has an obligation to
prevent genocide including by taking all
reasonable measures within its powers to
influence effectively the actions of
persons perpetrating and likely to
commit genocide or engaging in direct or
public incitement to genocide so let me
be clear South Africa's obligation is
motivated by the need to protect
Palestinians in Gaza and their absolute
rights not to be subjected to genocidal
acts not withstanding the incontestably
serious nature of the allegations
against Israel the court should not be
required before granting provisional
measures to ascertain whether the
existence of a genocidal intent is the
only plausible inference to be drawn
from the material before it that would
amount to the court making a
determination on the
merits moreover South Africa has
stressed that any motive or effort by
Israel to destroy Hamas does not
preclude genocidal intent by Israel
towards the whole or part of the
Palestinian people in
Gaza evidence of other motives
explaining its conduct as a perpetrator
will not save Israel from a finding that
it also possessed the requisite
genocidal
intent and because of a fundamental
feature of genocide namely that the
prohibitions of genocide and Associated
offenses are used Cogan in nature they
are subject therefore to no exceptional
qualification they are absolute in
nature in times of War and Peace always
and
everywhere furthermore the fact that the
alleged acts may also be characterized
as crimes other than genocide should not
exclude the plausible inference of the
existence of genocidal
intent as the UN Secretary General has
stated the prevention of genocide is
intrinsically connected to preventing
crimes against humanity and war crimes
as these crimes tend to occur
concurrently in the same situation
rather than as isolated events
consequently he said initiatives aimed
at preventing one of the crimes will in
most circumstances also cover the others
and as also set out in the ilc articles
on state responsibility the wrongful Act
of genocide is generally made up of a
series of acts which are themselves
internationally
wrongful Madame President honorable
members of the
Court South Africa's claims thus concern
in the first place its own obligations
as a state party to the genocide
convention to act to prevent and punish
genocide in the application South Africa
has stressed that it is acutely aware of
its own obligation as a state party to
the convention to prevent
genocide indeed this court has
recognized the Universal Character both
of the condemnation of genocide and of
the cooperation required in order to
liberate Mankind from such an odious
Scourge as the prohibition of genocide
is assuredly a perent norm of
international law or use kogens it is
crucial that states pursue their
interest under the convention in
ensuring acts of genocide
prevented additionally due to the
special characteristics of the genocide
convention the respondent state owes
this Duty not only to the Palestinian
people but to all states parties to the
genocide convention including South
Africa this has been emphasized
repeatedly by this court and most
recently in The Gambia case where the
Court held and I quote all the states
parties to the genocide convention have
a common interest to ensure that acts of
genocide are prevented and that if they
occur their authors do not enjoy
impunity that common interest said the
court implies that the obligations in
question are owed by any state party to
all the other states parties to the
convention similarly the court has
reiterated that in such a convention the
Contracting states do not have any
interests of their own they merely have
one and all a common interest namely the
accomplishment of those High purposes
which are the raison data of the
convention accordingly any state party
to the genocide convention and not only
a specially affected state may invoke
the responsibility of another state
party with a view to ascertaining the
alleged failure to comply with its
obligations erer omnes partes and to
bring that failure to an
end that means that South Africa is
asserting both a collective and an
individual
right it is thus Beyond doubt that South
Africa is entitled to invoke the
responsibility of Israel under the
genocide convention through South
Africa's interest in the common interest
and as a state party to the genocide
convention itself it is entitled to
safeguard compliance with that
instrument as has been explained the
events unfolding in Gaza at the hands of
the Israeli forces are frighteningly
unprecedented yet what this court is
being asked to do in these proceedings
interdicting genocidal acts on an inim
basis is sadly by no means novel
in relation to genocide the court has
indicated provisional measures in
analogous circumstances to these in The
Gambia case where as here a state sought
provisional measures on the basis of the
erga om's right that the genocide
convention be complied
with also in respect of genocide the
court did the same in the Bosnia and
Ukraine cases and most recently this
court further accepted the ER omnes
character of party's rights in relation
to the torture
convention so South Africa respectfully
contends that in this case the rights of
the Palestinians in Gaza are no less
worthy of this Court's considerable
protective power under article 41 to
issue provisional
measures this court cannot but find as
it did in the Gambia case where this
Court held that there is a correlation
between the rights of members of groups
protected under the genocide convention
the obligations incumbent on States
party is there too and the right of any
state party to seek compliance therewi
by another state
party South Africa's request therefore
complies with article 41 of this court
statute and engages the power of this
court to prever to preserve by such
measures the rights which may
subsequently be adjudged by it to belong
to either party South Africa requests
this court to discharge that critical
protective power and South Africa does
so by virtue of of its own clear right
and solemn obligations held towards the
International Community as a
whole for the court to indicate one or
more provisional measures there must
also be a link between the rights the
protection of which is sought and the
provisional measure being requested such
a link manifestly exists we say between
the rights claimed by South Africa in
its application and the provisional
measures requested which are directly
linked to the rights which form the
subject matter of the
dispute the provisional measures sought
therefore ensure the protection of
rights which might ultimately form the
basis of a judgment in the exercise of
the Court jurisdiction in due
course the rights at stake in these
proceedings are certainly at least
plausible grounded in a possible
interpretation of the convention and as
the convention imposes on parties the
obligation to prevent and punish
genocide under article one and in doing
so intend to protect groups and parts of
groups from
genocide the convention was designed to
protect both States parties and human
groups when acts in breach of the
convention are perpetrated it is the
fundamental rights of people and the
relevant group that are violated those
fundamental rights of Palestinians in
Gaza would be the subject of any
judgment by this court on the merits
Madam president members of the
court to find
otherwise will not only be to treat
Palestinians differently as less worthy
of protection than others it would also
be for the court to unduly limit its own
competence to turn its back upon its
extensive prior jurus prudence and to
close its eyes to the breach of the
rights which lie at the heart of the
convention and which breaches are taking
place in Gaza right now as I
close Madame President I ask you now to
call Miss neali KC to the podium who
will address you on a risk of further
genocidal acts the risk of irreparable
harm and urgency and I thank you for
your
attention I thank professor dupi and I
now invite Miss uh Ben Blen neali to
take the floor you have the floor
Madam
madame Madam president members of the
Court it is a great honor for me to
appear before the court once
again it is also both a privilege and a
weighty responsibility for me to
represent South Africa in this case of
such severe
gravity it is my task to examine the
urgency and the risk of irreparable harm
to the rights claimed the final two
conditions to be met for the the court
to indicate provisional
measures before that I should like to
address South Africa's sincere apologies
to the frankophone members of the court
for not having made any of its
submissions in
French South Africa would ask you not to
regard this as a lack of courtesy on its
part if you will allow I shall now
continue my pleadings in English
Madame President members of the Court
there is an urgent need for provisional
measures to protect Palestinians in Gaza
from the irreparable Prejudice caused by
Israel's violations of the genocide
convention the United Nations Secretary
General and its Chiefs describe the
situation in Gaza variously as a crisis
of humanity a living hell a blood bath
a situation of utter deepening and
unmatched horror where an entire
population is besieged and under attack
denied access to the essentials for
survival on a massive
scale as the United Nations under
Secretary General for humanitarian
Affairs stated last Friday and I
quote Gaza has become a place of death
and
despair families are sleeping in the
open is temperatures
plummet areas where civilians were told
to relocate for their safety have come
under Relentless attack
bombardment medical facilities are under
Relentless attack the few hospitals that
are partially functional are overwhelmed
with trauma cases critically short of O
supplies and inundated by desperate
people seeking
safety a public health disaster is
unfolding infectious disease diseases
are spreading in overcrowded shelters as
sewers spill
over some 180 women are giving birth
daily amidst this
chaos people are facing the highest
levels of food insecurity ever
recorded famine is around the
corner for children in particular the
last 12 weeks have been traumatic no
food no water no school nothing but the
terrifying sounds of War day in and day
out Gaza has simply become
uninhabitable its people are witnessing
daily threats to their very
existence while the world watches
on end
quote the court has heard of the
horrific death toll and of the more than
7,000 Palestinian men women and children
reported missing presume doomed dead or
dying slow excruciating deaths trapped
under the
rubble reports have field executions and
torture and ill treatment are mounting
as are images of decomposing bodies of
Palestinian men women and children left
unburied where they were killed some
being picked upon by
animals it is becoming ever clearer that
huge SES of Gaza entire towns villages
refug G camps are being wiped from the
map as you have heard but it Bears
repeating according to the world food
program four out of five people in the
world in famine or a catastrophic type
of hunger are in Gaza right
now indeed experts warn that deaths from
starvation and disease risk
significantly outstripping deaths from
bombings the daily statistic ICS stand
as clear evidence of the urgency and of
the irreparable
Prejudice on the basis of the current
figures on average
247 Palestinians are being killed and
are at risk of being killed each day
many of them literally blown to
Pieces they include 48 mothers each day
two every hour
and over 117 children each day leading
UNICEF to call Israel's actions a war on
children on current rates which so show
no sign of abating each day over three
Medics two teachers more than one United
Nations employee and more than one
journalist will be killed many while at
work or in what appear to be targeted
attacks on their family homes or where
they are
Sheltering the risk of famine will
increase each day each day an average of
629 people will be wounded some multiple
times over as they move from place to
place Desperately Seeking
Sanctuary each day over 10 Palestinian
children will have one or both legs
amputated many without
anesthetic
each day on current rates an average of
3,900 Palestinian homes will be damaged
or
destroyed more mass graves will be dug
more cemeteries will be bulldozed and
bombed and corpses violently exhumed
denying even the dead any dignity or
peace each day ambulances hospitals and
Medics will continue to be attacked and
killed the First Responders who have
spent 3 months months without
International assistance trying to dig
families out of the rubble with their
bare hands will continue to be
targeted on current figures one will be
killed almost every second day sometimes
an attacks launched against those
attending the scene to rescue the
wounded each day yet more desperate
people will be forced to relocate from
where they are Sheltering or will be
bombed in places where they have been
told to evacuate
to entire multigenerational families
will be
obliterated and yet more Palestinian
children will become WC
NSF wounded child no surviving family
the terrible new acronym born out of
Israel's genocidal assault on the
Palestinian population in
Gaza there is an urgent need for
provisional measures to prevent imminent
irreparable Prejudice to the rights in
issue in this case there could not be a
clearer or more compelling case in the
words of the commissioner General of the
United Nations relief and works agency
there must be an end to the dation of
Gaza and of its
people turning to the Court's case law
as the court has recently reaffirmed and
I quote the condition of urgency is met
when acts susceptible of causing
irreparable Prejudice can occur at any
moment before the court makes a final
decision on the case end
quote that is precisely the situation
here any of those matters to which I
have referred can and are occurring at
any
moment United Nations security Council
resolutions demanding quote the
immediate safe unhindered delivery of
humanitarian assistance at scale
throughout Gaza and full Rapid Safe and
unhindered humanitarian access end quote
remain
unimplemented United Nations General
Assembly resolutions calling for a
humanitarian ceasefire have been
ignored the situation could not be more
urgent since these proceedings were
initiated on the 29th of December 2023
alone and estimated over 1,000 73
Palestinians have been killed in Gaza
and over
3,252
injured as to the Criterion of
irreparable prejudice for decades now
the court has repeatedly found it to be
satisfied in situations where serious
risks arise to human life or to other
fundamental
rights in the cases of Georgia Russia
and Armenia aeran the court ordered
provisional measures having found a
serious risk of irreparable prejudice
where hundreds of thousands of people
had been forced from their
homes in ordering provisional measures
in the latter case the court noted the
context of I quote the long-standing
exposure of the population to a
situation of vulnerability including
hindrances to the importation of
essential Goods causing shortages of
food medicine and other life saving
medic
supplies end
quote in Gaza as you have heard nearly 2
million people over 85% of the
population have been repeatedly forced
to flee their homes and shelters not
just once or twice but some three four
or more times over into shrinking
slivers of land where they continue to
be bombed and
killed this is a population that Israel
had already made vulnerable through 13
through 16 years of military blockade
and crippling de
development today Israel's hindrances to
the import of food and essential items
have brought Gaza to the brink of
famine with adults mothers fathers
grandparents regularly foregoing food
for the day so that children can eat at
least
something Med shortages and the lack of
medical treatment clean water and
electricity are so great that large
numbers of Palestinians are dying or are
at imminent risk of dying preventable
deaths cancer and other services have
long shut
down women are undergoing cesarian
sections without anesthetic in barely
functioning hospitals described as
scenes from a horror movie with many
undergoing otherwise unnecessary Neary
hysterectomies in in an attempt to save
their
lives in the Canada Syria torture case
the court made clear that I quote
individuals subject to torture and other
acts of cruel inhuman or degrading
treatment or punishment are at serious
risk of irreparable
prejudice while Palestinians in Gaza are
also at risk of such irreparable
Prejudice with videos of Palestinian B
poison men rounded up and stripped and
degraded broadcast to the world
alongside footage of serious bodily harm
and accounts of serious mental harm and
humiliation in Qatar United Arab
Emirates the court considered
provisional measures to be justified
having regard to the risk of irreparable
prejudice deriving from factors such as
people being forced to leave their
places of residence without the
possibility of return the psychological
distress of temporary or potentially
ongoing separation from their families
and the harm associated with students
being prevented from taking their
exams if provisional measures were
Justified there how could they not be in
Gaza where countless families have been
separated with some family members
evacuating under Israeli military orders
and others staying behind at extreme
risk to care for the wounded infirm and
the elderly where husbands Fathers and
Sons are being Lo rounded up and
separated from their families taken to
unknown locations for indeterminate
periods of
time in the katar case the court issued
a provisional order where harm to
approximately 150 students was in
issue in Gaza
625,000 school children have not
attended school for 3 months
with the United Nations security Council
I expressing deep concern I quote that
the disruption of access to education
has a dramatic impact on children and
that conflict has lifelong effects on
their physical and mental
health almost 990,000 Palestinian
University students cannot attend a
university in Gaza over 60% of schools
almost all universities and coun
bookshops and libraries have been
damaged or destroyed and hundreds of
teachers and academics have been killed
including deans of universities and
leading Palestinian Scholars
obliterating the very prospects for the
future education of gaza's children and
young
people notably the court has found
provisional measures to be justified in
all three cases where they were
previously sought in relation to
violations of the genocide
convention it did so in Bosnia and
Serbia in
1993 finding on the basis of evidence
that was certainly no more compelling
than that pres presently before the
court that it was sufficient to
determine that there was and I quote a
grave risk of Acts of genocide being
committed the court found provisional
measures to be justified in The Gambia
Myanmar case on the basis of a risk of
irreparable prejudice to the rohinga
subject to quote mass killings as well
as beatings the destruction of villages
and homes denial of access to food
shelter and other Essentials of
life more recently in indicating
provisional measures in Ukraine Russia
the court considered that Russia's
military activities had quote resulted
in numerous civilian deaths and injuries
and cause significant material damage
including the destruction of buildings
and infrastructure
end quote giving rise to a risk of
irreparable
prejudice the court had regard to the
fact that quote attacks are ongoing and
are creating increasingly difficult
living conditions for the civilian
population end quote which it considered
to be extremely
vulnerable the court also considered the
fact that I quote again many persons
have no access to the most basic food
stuffs potable water El electricity
essential medicines or Heating and that
many were attempting to flee under
extremely insecure
conditions this is occurring in Gaza on
a much more intensive scale to a
besieged trapped terrified population
that has nowhere safe to
go lest the country be suggested it is
clear from Ukraine Russia that the fact
that the Urgent risk of irreparable harm
arises in a situation of armed conflict
does not undermine much less preclude a
request for provisional measures that's
also clear from the Court's other
judgments so in the case of armed
activities on the territory of the Congo
for example the court ordered
provisional measures based on its
finding that quote persons assets and
resources present on the territory of
the Congo particularly in the area of
conflict remain extremely vulnerable and
that there was a serious risk that
rights at issue in the case may suffer
irreparable Prejudice end
quote similarly in Costa Rica Nicaragua
the court indicated PR provisional
measures in part on the basis that the
presence of troops in the disputed
territory gave rise I quote to a real
and present risk of incident liable to
cause IR remediable harm in the form of
bodily injury or death end
quote in relation to the genocide
convention in particular the court
recalled in Gambia Myanmar that quote
States parties expressly confirmed their
willingness to consider genocide as a
crime under international law which they
must prevent and punish independently of
the context of peace or of war in which
it takes place
end
quote more recently in the case of
Guyana Venezuela the court considered
that the serious risk of Venezuela quote
acquiring and exercising control and
administration of the territory in
dispute end quote gave rise to a risk of
irreparable prejudice to the rights
assited in the
case similar factors are an issue here
having regard to the territorial
Ambitions and settlement plans for Gaza
being raised by members of the Israeli
government and the relationship of those
factors to the very survival of
Palestinians in Gaza as
such similarly any scaling up by Israel
of access of humanitarian Leaf to Gaza
in response to these proceedings or
otherwise would be no answer to South
Africa's request for provisional
measures in the case of Iran United
States the court found a risk of
irreparable harm from the exposure of in
individuals to danger to health and life
caused by restrictions placed on
medicines and medical devices food
stuffs and other Goods required for
humanitarian
needs that was not withstanding the
assurances offered by the United States
for it to expedite the consideration of
humanitarian issues and not withstanding
the fact that Essentials were in any
event exempt from the United n the
United States
sanctions the court considered that the
assurances were I quote not adequate to
address fully the humanitarian and
safety concerns raised and that there
remained a risk that measures adopted by
the United States May entail irreparable
consequences in Armenia aeran unil
undertakings to alleviate restriction
restrictions alongside the full
resumption of humanitarian and
Commercial deliveries did not defeat
request for the indication of
provisional
measures the court was clear that while
contributing quote towards mitigating
the imminent risk of irreparable
prejudice resulting from the military
operation those developments did not
remove the risk
entirely indeed in Georgia Russia the
court made clear that it considers a
serious risk to subsist where quote the
situation is unstable and could rapidly
change the court considered quote given
the ongoing tension and the absence of
an overall settlement to the conflict in
this region populations also remain
vulnerable end
quote Israel continues to deny that it
is responsible for the humanitarian
crisis it has created even as Gaza
starves the aid it has belatedly begun
to allow in is wholly inadequate and
does not come anywhere close to the
average 500 trucks being permitted daily
before October the uh before October
2023 even under the
blockade any unilateral undertakings
Israel might seek to give about future
Aid would not remove the risk of
irreparable prejudice not least
considering Israel's past and current
conduct towards the Palestinian people
including the 16 years of brutal Siege
on
Gaza in any event as the United Nations
Secretary General has made absolutely
clear it is a mistake to measure a quote
the effectiveness of the humanitarian
operation in Gaza based on the number of
trucks allowed in as he stressed I quote
the real problem is that the way Israel
is conducting this offensive means that
the conditions for the effective
delivery of humanitarian Aid no longer
exist that would require
security staff who can work in safety
logistical capacity and the resumption
of commercial activity it requires
electricity and steady
Communications all of these remain
absent end
quote indeed only shortly after Israel
opened the Kem Shalom Crossing to Goods
in late December
2023 it was struck in a drone attack
killing five Palestinians and leading to
another temporary
closure nowhere and nobody is
safe as the United Nations secret
Secretary General enal and all its
Chiefs have made clear without a halt to
Israel's military
operations Crossings Aid convoys and
humanitarian workers like everyone and
everything else in Gaza remain at
imminent risk of further irreparable
Prejudice an
unprecedented 148 United Nation staff
have been killed to
date without a halt to Israel's military
activity in Gaza there will be no end to
the extreme situation facing Palestinian
civilians Madame President members of
the court if the indication of
provisional measures was Justified on
the facts in those cases I have cited
how could it not be here in a situation
of much greater severity where the
imminent risk of irreparable harm is so
much
greater how could they not be justified
in a situation that humanitarian
veterans from crisis SP spanning as far
back as The Killing Fields of
Cambodia people who in the words of the
United Nations Secretary General have
seen
everything if they say it is so utterly
unprecedented that they are out of words
to describe
it it would be a complete departure from
the long and an established line of
jurist prudence that this court has
firmly established and recently
reconfirmed for the court not to order
provisional measures in this case the
imminent risk of death harm and
destruction that Palestinians in Gaza
face today and that they risk every day
during the pendency of these proceedings
on any view justifies indeed compels the
indication of provisional
measures some might say that the very
reputation of international law its
ability and willingness to bind and to
protect All Peoples equally hangs in the
balance but the genocide convention is
about much more than legal
precedent it is also fundamentally about
the confirmation and indorsement of
Elementary principles of
morality the court recalled the 194 6
General Assembly resolution on the crime
of genocide which made clear that I
quote genocide is a denial of the right
of existence of entire human groups as
homicide is the denial of the right to
live of individual human
beings such denial of the right of
existence shocks the conscience of
mankind results in great losses to
humanity in the form of cultural and
other contributions represented by these
human groups and is contrary to moral
law and to the spirit and aims of the
United Nations end
quote not withstanding the genocide
convention's recognition of the need to
rid the world of the odious scourge of
genocide the International Community has
repeatedly
failed it failed the people of Rwanda it
had failed the Bosnian people and the
ringia prompting this court to take
action it failed again by ignoring the
early warnings of the Grave risk of
genocide to the Palestinian people
sounded by International experts since
19th of October of last
year the International Community
continues to fail the Palestinian people
despite the overt dehumanizing genocidal
rhetoric by Israeli governmental and
military officials matched by the
Israeli Army's actions on the
ground despite the horror of the
genocide against the Palestinian people
being live streamed from Gaza to our
mobile phones computers and television
screens the first genocide in history
where its victims are broadcasting their
own destruction in real time in the
desperate so far vain hope that the
world might do
something Gaza represents nothing short
of a moral failure as described by the
univers usually circumspect
International Committee of the Red
Cross as underscored by United Nations
Chiefs that failure has I quote
repercussions not just for the people of
Gaza but for the generations to come who
will never forget these over 90 days of
hell and assaults on the most basic
precepts of
humanity as stated by United Nations
spokesperson in Gaza last week at the
site of a hospital clearly marked with
the symbol of the red present where five
Palestinians including a 5day old baby
had just been
killed the world should be absolutely
horrified the world should be absolutely
outraged there is no safe space in Gaza
and the world should be
ashamed
Madame President members of the court in
conclusion I share with you two
photographs the first is of a white
board at a hospital in Northern Gaza one
of the many Palestinian hospitals
targeted besieged and bombed by Israel
over the course of the past three brutal
months the white board is wiped clean of
no longer possible surgical cases
leaving only a handwritten message by a
med Sansan doctor which
reads we did what we could remember
us the second photograph is of the same
whiteboard after an Israeli strike on
the hospital on the 21st of November
that killed the author of the message Dr
Mahmud
abua along with two of his
colleagues just over a month later in a
powerful sermon delivered from a church
in Bethlehem on Christmas Day the same
day Israel had killed 250 Palestinians
including at least 86 people many from
the same family massacred in a single
strike on magazi refugee
camp Palestinian Pastor mther ishak
addressed his congregation and the world
and he said and I
quote Gaza as we know it no longer
exists this is an
Annihilation this is a
genocide we will rise we will stand up
again from the midst of Destruction as
we have always done as Palestinians
though this is by far maybe the biggest
blow we have received but he said no
apologies will be accepted after the
genocide what has been done has been
done I want you to look in the mirror
and ask where was I when Gaza was going
through through a
genocide South Africa is here before
this court in the peace
Palace it has done what it could it is
doing what it can by initiating these
proceedings by seeking interim measures
against itself as well as against
Israel South Africa now respectfully and
humbly calls on this honorable Court
to do what is in its power to do to
indicate the provisional measures that
are so urgently required to prevent
further irreparable harm to the
Palestinian people in Gaza whose hopes
including for their very survival are
now vested in this
court
Madame Madam president members of the
court I should like to thank you for
your kind attention
I ask that you call Professor low casc
to the podium now to describe the
provisional measures sought by South
Africa on behalf of the Palestinian
people I thank Miss neik and I now
invite Professor Von L to address the
court you have the floor
professor
thanks thank
you Madame President members of the
court it's a privilege to appear before
you and an honor to do so on behalf of
the Republic of South
Africa this case is brought under
article n of the genocide convention
which entitles any Contracting party to
the convention to to submit to the court
disputes relating to the
interpretation application or
fulfillment of the
convention the court does not at this
stage have to determine whether or not
Israel has or has not acted contrary to
its obligations under the genocide
convention that can only be done at the
Merit stage it's concerned now only with
the question of what provisional
measures are required pending the
Court's final decision on the
merits the Court's jurist Prudence
points to five requirements for The
Ordering of provisional
measures the first is that there should
be primeras
jurisdiction and that was addressed by
Professor
Dugard the second is that there should
be a link between the measures
requested and the rights underlying the
main
claim this requirement is plainly
satisfied the measures request an order
that Israel does not violate the very
rights secured by the genocide
Convention as set out in South Africa's
application the third is the
plausibility of the rights that are
claimed Professor dupi explained that
this is clearly
satisfied the rights claimed are the
very core of the
vention notably the right not to be
killed or seriously harmed and the right
of the group not to be physically
destroyed fourth and fifth there must be
a risk of irreparable prejudice capable
of arising prior to the final
determination of the
dispute and there must be
urgency M nrai addressed those points
points Israel has for over 3 months been
mounting a continuous Siege and
bombardment of
Gaza of a ferocity and
duration that can only be seen as an
attempt to destroy Gaza and its
citizens and it is publicly asserting
that it will continue to do
so you were aware of the scale of the
death and the scale of the
destruction and it is continuing at this
very
minute the court has said that quote a
state's obligation to prevent
genocide and the corresponding duty to
act Arise at the instant that the state
learns of or should normally have
learned of the existence of a serious
risk that genocide will be
committed from that moment onwards if a
state has available to it means likely
to have a deterrent effect on those
suspected of preparing genocide or
reasonably suspected of harboring
specific
intent it is under a
duty to make such use of those means as
the circumstances permit
end
quote and that is what South Africa has
done by making this
application in cases such as LR aena
jadav this court has exercised its power
to order provisional measures having
regard to the impact not only of
provisional measures on the state's
parties to a
case but also to the impact on the
individual's d directly affected and
their
rights it has issued orders to restrain
States from killing individuals in a
manner alleged to violate international
law and that is what South Africa is
requesting after more than 23,000
individuals have already been killed in
The Siege and bombardment of Gaza the
overwhelming majority of them innocent
men women and
children the court also issues orders to
safeguard the Integrity of its
proceedings and the efficacy of its
final
ruling in the Bosnia genocide case for
example you ordered that the parties
quote not take any action and ensure
that no action is taken which may
aggravate or extend the existing dispute
over the prevention or punishment of the
crime of
genocide or render it more difficult of
solution end
quote without such non- aggravation
orders there is a real risk that a
respondent will rush to complete its
unlawful conduct before the Court's
final
ruling thus rendering the ruling and the
court
and
irrelevance well South Africa has kept
its application in this case within the
scope of the
convention first some will ask why South
Africa does not seek any court order
against
Hamas this case concerns Israel's
actions in Gaza which is territory that
3 weeks ago in resolution
2720 the UN Security Council stressed is
quote an integral part of the territory
occupied in
1967 end quote by
Israel as the court will understand
Hamas is not a
state and cannot be a party to the
genocide
convention and cannot be a party to
these
proceedings there are other bodies and
processes that can address the questions
of steps to be taken in respect of past
atrocities and against other actors and
they are no doubt considering what they
should
do but as a matter of law under the
convention South Africa cannot request
an order from this court against
Hamas secondly South Africa understands
that not all violence constitutes
genocide acts of ethnic
cleansing Collective
punishment the targeting of
civilians attacks on hospitals and other
war crimes are all
unlawful but they do not always violate
the genocide
convention genocide requires an intent
to destroy in whole or in part and
National ethnical racial or religious
group but the fact that what Israel is
doing in Gaza may also constitute war
crimes or crimes against humanity is no
defense and no bar to a charge of
genocide South Africa has set out its
request for relief in paragraph
111 of its application
and its request for provisional measures
in
paragraph
144 the reasoning behind the requests is
pragmatic the first two paragraphs of
the provisional measures request call
for the suspension of Israel's military
operations in and against
Gaza Israel's continuing occupation uh
operation in Gaza since the 7th of
October attack is the focus of this
case Minister Leola has recalled the
fact that South Africa has condemned the
7th of October
attack Israel says that Palestine and
Palestinians are not its
Target and that its aim is to destroy
Hammer but months of continuous bombing
flattening entire residential blocks and
cutting off food and water and
electricity and Communications to an
entire
population cannot credibly be argued to
be a Manhunt for members of
hamus it is an indiscriminate attack
killing maming and terrorizing the
entire population of Gaza with no regard
to questions of Innocence or
guilt obliterating the homes and cities
in which they
live and destroying any practical
possibility of their return to make
their homes amidst the
rubble Israel's actions both attack
Palestinians in Gaza
directly and also prevents humanitarian
relief reaching
them Palestinians face death from
continuing bombardments and shootings
and death death from starvation and
disease which is even more
indiscriminate but usually
slower in recent days the United States
has said again that far too many
civilians are being
killed and the UN Secretary General and
the UN under secretary for humanitarian
Affairs and the commissioner general of
the UN relief and works
agency have asserted that it is
imperative to Halt military operations
in order to enable the effective
delivery of humanitarian
relief and that is why South Africa has
requested an order for the immediate
suspension of Israel's military
operations in and against
Gaza it is the only way to secure the
humanitarian
response and avoid yet more unnecessary
death and
destruction there is a point to
emphasize it's no use Israel saying that
it does whatever it can to minimize the
deaths of innocent men women and
children the use of 2,000 bunker busting
bombs and dumb bombs in residential
areas and the Relentless bombardment of
Gaza and even of so-called safe areas to
which Palestinians have been directed by
Israel tell another
story but that is not the only point
it's not just a question of scale and of
indiscriminate killing it's also a
question of
intention if any military operation no
matter how care y it's carried out is
carried out pursuant to an
intention to destroy a people in whole
or in part it violates the Gen the
genocide
convention and it must
stop and that is why all military
operations capable of violating the
genocide convention must
cease the Third request is for an order
that both Israel and South Africa in
accordance with their obligations under
the genocide convention in relation to
the Palestinian people take all
reasonable measures to prevent
genocide the fourth and fifth measures
then spell out these General Obligations
in terms of the specific instances of
offenses listed in articles 1 uh 2 and
three three of the
convention the sixth requested measure
addresses the fact that aside from its
own acts the government of Israel is
legally bound to prevent and punish
others who engage in or incite or
actively support conduct that violates
the genocide
convention until the reported
intervention of the Attorney General 36
hours ago Israeli authorities appear to
have done practically nothing to stop
the flow of genocidal rhetoric including
statements emanating from the ranks of
public
officials indeed the
Toleration even normalization of such
incitement has become a matter of
concern within Israel
itself and that is why this measure is
sought this case is important lives are
at stake Israel's credibility and
reputation are at
stake yet evidence that could determine
whether or not particular acts violate
the genocide convention is being
lost or
destroyed while fact-f finders and
foreign journalists are unable to report
freely from Gaza
hence the seventh request which is for
an order directing the preservation of
evidence and finally South Africa asks
that the court require specific reports
from Israel on what it is doing to
implement the order General assurances
are not enough reports published via the
court are an essential element of
accountability
I should address the question of
self-defense in its advisory opinion in
the wall case the court noted that the
threat that Israel had argued Justified
the construction of the wall was not
imputable to a foreign state but
emanated from territory the occupied
Palestinian territory over which Israel
itself exercises
control for those reasons the court
decided as a matter of international law
the right of self-defense under article
51 of the charter the UN Charter had no
relevance in such
circumstances 20 days ago the security
Council affirmed yet again that Gaza is
occupied
territory though Israel refers to a
complete withdrawal from Gaza it has
retained control over Gaza over access
by land and sea and air and over key
governmental functions and supplies of
water and
electricity the tightness of its grip
may have
varied but no one can doubt The
Continuous reality of Israel's grip on
Gaza the Court's legal holding from 2004
holds good and a similar point is to be
made here what Israel is doing in Gaza
it is doing in territory under its own
control its actions are enforcing its
occupation the law on self-defense under
article 51 of the UN Charter has no
application but that is not the main
point the main point is much
simpler it is that no matter how
monstrous or
appalling an attack or
provocation genocide is never a
permitted
response every use of force whether used
in
self-defense or in enforcing an
occupation or in polic operations or
otherwise must stay within the limits
set by international law including the
explicit Duty in article one of the
convention to prevent
genocide South Africa believes that the
publicly available evidence of the scale
of the destruction resulting from the
bombardment of
Gaza and the deliberate restriction of
of food water medicines and electricity
available to the population of
Gaza demonstrates that the government of
Israel not Jewish people or Israeli
citizens the government of Israel and
its
military is intent on destroying the
Palestinians in Gaza as a group and is
doing nothing to prevent or punish the
actions of of others who support that
aim and I repeat the point is not simply
that Israel is acting
disproportionately the point is that the
prohibition on genocide is an absolute a
perm rule of law nothing can ever
justify
genocide no matter what some individuals
within the group of Palestinians in Gaza
may have done and no matter how great
the threat to Israeli citizens might be
genocidal attacks on the whole of Gaza
and the whole of its population with the
intent of destroying them cannot be
justified and no exception can be made
in a provisional measures order to allow
a state to engage in actions that are
capable of violating its obligations
under the genocide convention
it is
Unthinkable that a court would ever do
such a
thing that is the simple point in this
case genocide can never be justified in
any
circumstances Israel's actions will be
examined closely and methodically at the
Merit stage when the court will want to
hear what Israel has to say in its
defense what matters now is that the
evidence in indicates that Israel's
actions have violated its obligations
under the genocide convention that they
continue to violate them and that Israel
has asserted that it intends to continue
them Israel may say that it will comply
with all of its obligations under the
genocide convention and that orders from
the court are not
necessary but in previous cases the
court has held that such un leral
statements do not remove the risk of
irreparable prejudice or obviate the
need for a court
order in this case one reason for
doubting the efficacy of any such
unilateral
undertaking is Israel's apparent
inability to see that it has done
anything wrong in grinding Gaza and its
people into the
dust Another reason is that a departure
from from or
reinterpretation of any unilateral
undertaking by Israel may lead to
consequences so appalling that the risk
simply cannot be
taken but there is a third
reason as was noted during the
submissions to this court in the case
concerning the reservations to the
genocide convention in
1951 quote the obligation to MIT
disputes concerning the interpretation
or execution of the convention to the
international court of justice was
regarded as one of the Prime guarantees
of the due fulfillment of the basic
obligation to prevent and punish the
crime of genocide end
quote the role of the Court which
unusually extends not only to the
interpretation and application of the
convention
but also to its
fulfillment is
pivotal in addition to their substantive
obligations under the convention it is
vitally
important that states respect the court
and their procedural
obligations this is not a moment for the
court to sit back and be
silent it's necessary that it assert its
AU Authority and itself order compliance
with the obligations under the genocide
convention indeed it's hard to think of
a case in recent history which has been
so important for the future of
international
law and of this
court Madame President members of the
court that concludes my submission I
thank you for your attention and unless
I can help you further I'd ask that you
call on South Africa's agent to read out
the request for
Relief I thank professor loow and I now
invite the agent of South Africa his
Excellency Mr vusumuzi madon to address
the court you have the floor
Excellency Madame
President it remains my honor to read to
your excellencies the provisional
measures that South Africa requests from
the
court you have heard the reasons set out
which justify the measures being
sought to sum up the indication of
provisional measures is we recognize
without prejudice to the merits of the
underlying
claim yet the evidence at this stage
indicates grave violence and genocidal
acts against the Palestinians in Gaza in
flagrant contravention of the genocide
convention and in breach of their
rights South Africa has come to this
court to prevent
genocide and to do so in the discharge
of the international obligation that
rests on South Africa and all other
states under the
convention the consequences of not
indicating clear
and
particularized specific provisional
measures and to not taking steps to
intervene while Israel disregards its
International obligations before our
eyes would we fear be very grave indeed
for the Palestinians in Gaza Who Remain
at real risk of further genocidal
acts for the Integrity of the
convention for the rights of South
Africa and for the reputation of this
court which is
equipped with and must exercise his
powers to afford an effective
realization of the rights under the
convention that means we respectfully
submit indicating the provisional
measures being sought by South Africa as
well as any others in addition which the
court might deem
appropriate Justice and equal respect
for the rights of
Palestinians points overwhelmingly in
favor of these critically required
provisional
measures Madame President I now proceed
to read the measures requested by South
Africa on the basis of the facts set
forth
above South Africa as a state party to
the convention on the prevention and
Punishment of the crime of
genocide respectfully request the court
as a matter of extreme
agency pending the ca determination of
this case on the merits to indicate the
following provisional measures in
relation to the Palestinian people as a
group protected by the genocide
convention these measures are directly
linked to the rights that form the sub
subject matter of South Africa's
disputes with
Israel
one the state of Israel sh shall
immediately suspend its military
operations in and against
Gaza
two the state of Israel shall ensure
that any military or irregular armed
units which may be directed supported or
influenced by it as well as any
organizations and person which may be
subject to its control direction or
influence take no steps in furtherance
of the military operations referred to
in point1
above
three the Republic of South Africa and
the state of Israel shall each in
accordance with their obligations under
the convention on the prevention and
Punishment of the crime of
genocide in relation to the Palestinian
people take all reasonable measures
within their power to prevent
genocide
four the state of Israel shall in
accordance with its obligations under
the convention on the prevention and
Punishment of the crime of
genocide in relation to the Palestinian
people as a group protected by the
convention on the prevention and
Punishment of the crime of genocide
desist from the commission of of any and
all acts within the scope of article
two of the
convention in particular a killing
members of the group b causing serious
bodily or mental harm to the members of
the group C deliberately inflicting on
the group conditions of Life calculated
to bring about its physical destruction
in whole or in part and de
imposing measures intended to prevent
births within the
group
five the state of Israel shall
pent to point4 paragraph C above in
relation to
Palestinians desist from and take all
measures within its power
including the resending of relevant
orders of restrictions and or
prohibitions to prevent a the expulsion
and forc displacement from their
homes B the deprivation
of access to adequate food and
water access to humanitarian assistance
including access to adequate fuel
shelter clothes hygiene and
sanitation the medical supplies and
assistance and see the destruction of
Palestinian life in
Gaza number
six the state of Israel shall in
relation to
Palestinians ensure that its military as
well as any irregular armed units or
individuals which may be directed
supported or otherwise influenced by it
and any organizations and persons which
may be subject to in control direction
or influence do not commit any act
described in four and five above or
engage in direct and public incitement
to commit
genocide conspiracy to commit
genocide attempt to commit genocide or
complicity in
genocide and in so far as they do engage
therein that steps are taken towards
their punishment
pursuant to articles 1 2 3 and four of
the convention on the prevention and
Punishment of the crime of
genocide number seven the state of
Israel shall take effective measures to
prevent the destruction and ensure the
preservation of evidence related to
allegations of Acts within the scope of
article two of the convention on the
prevention and Punishment of the crime
of genocide to that end the states of
Israel shall not act to deny or
otherwise restrict access by fact
finding Missions International mandates
and other bodies to Gaza to assist in
ensuring the preservation and retention
of said
evidence number eight the state of
Israel shall submit a report to the
court on all measures taken to give
effect to this order within one week as
from the date of this order and
thereafter at such regular intervals as
the court shall order until a final
decision on the case is rendered by the
court and that such reports shall be
punished by published by the court I beg
your Parton number
nine the state of Israel shall refrain
from any action and shall Ensure that no
action is taken which might aggravate or
extend the dispute before the court or
make it more difficult to
resolve thank you Madame President and
distinguished members of the court that
concludes South Africa's address thank
you I thank the agent of South Africa
whose statement brings to an end the
single round of oral argument of South
Africa as well as this morning's sitting
the court will meet again tomorrow 12
January 2024 at 10: a.m. to hear the
single round oral argument of Israel the
sitting
[Applause]
ised